---
layout: default
---
# Unessays

You can read my first Unessay [here](./unessay1)

# No Digital Day

You can read my reflection to No Digital Day [here](./nodd)

# BLOGS

## Blog 5 - 

## Blog 4 - Digital Blackface

Last week we read an article on digital blackface, which was a topic I was familiar with already having come across this debate in the past. The author of the Teen Vogue article describes the term as "various types of minstrel performance that become available in cyberspace". This may be accurate, however, I would argue that this definition would be different from what we define as traditional blackface. Last semester I took a course in Film where we watched Birth of A Nation (1915).  In it, white actors portrayed black men by painting their faces black, thus, blackface. Back then, racism was much more prevalent, and in today's progressive society this would no longer be acceptable. Nevertheless, even though the author makes convincing points about use of black GIFs, I believe that digital blackface expresses a different meaning.

In the past, blackface was used not only to portray black people in film and theater, but to exaggerate facial features, such as bigger lips, to an extent that transforms the subject into a form of comedy. The author mentions that this has influenced several entertainment genres, which is surprisingly true; cartoons do the same thing and transform "over-the-top" movements into humor as seen in early looney toons. And because it is so "over the top", we find such imagery to be funny and entertaining, which is why we would share GIFs of black people to emphasize our over the top emotions to friends and family, that a simple 2 dimensional text can't. However, even though the line is still quite muddy to clearly define differences between traditional and digital, it must have a different type of humor we get out of it becuase we have transcended from racism as a society. 

I can't speak strongly about this topic without first doing myself the favor to read up on more articles, but I can say that we are moving towards cultural appropriation; more black people are now getting "subtle traits or feelings" in roles that helps shift stereotypes (Hidden Figures, for example). Even when you go to giphy.com and search sassy, the majority are not black personas. As an immigrant here, I would encourage and embrace our individual cultures because that's what makes us different. Being a minority may limit you, but standing out in a crowd gives you a larger platform to raise awareness, so that you can excel from what the norm is. Before reading the article, I thought to myself: wouldn't African-Americans be glad the public were sharing GIFs of their people? The author describes it as the "act of inhabiting a black persona", but is that such a bad thing? We used to, and still are inheriting a black persona for the audience's entertainment, but it is now a different kind of entertainment without a racist connotation. Consider if we were using a GIF of Kevin Hart, would that not count as cultural appropriation if the GIF and person in question has the intention of being entertaining/humorous? Kevin Hart is an entertainer, he is intentionally comedic and his facial expressions are meant to be exaggerated. 

Finally, thinking beyond use of digital blackface for GIFs, I considered use of black emojis. I know some friends who use the black emoji for a little "banter". However, questions can also arise about whether us inhabiting this black persona is culturally appropriate. One particular emoji is the dancing black man; perhaps people want to convey they are "street" or "hip", and that gets us back to the same topic of stereotypes and use of digital blackface.  

Based on We Need To Talk About Digital Blackface in Reaction GIFs by Lauren Michelle Jackson: [here](https://www.teenvogue.com/story/digital-blackface-reaction-gifs)

## Blog 3 - Memes

I am very involved with current meme culture, getting my daily alotted memes mainly through Reddit's r/Dankmemes and r/MemeEconomy. Last week, we read Rabinowitz's article entitled The Meme as Meme, which is quite meta now that I think about it; the term meme has become a meme: "a piece of content or an idea that’s passed from person to person, changing and evolving along the way". The article talks about origins of the term from Richard Dawkins, which has changed throughout the years. For this blog I will be specifically talking about Internet Memes.

First, the section of this article that stood out to me, was how Dawkins actually separates Internet memes: it is altered deliberately by human creativity. This is significant to understanding meme culture, unlike what Dawkins originally describes as a unit of cultural transmission by natural selection, Internet memes has the potential to become viral years after its original content was put out on the Internet, until someone decides to "remix" it. I have seen many instances of this coming true in the case of YouTube videos. Suddenly, a video posted from 2009 gains popularity again because someone had made a subject in the video a meme. This is exactly what distinguishes Internet memes, through our own, unique, experiences and creativity of someone's original content. As humans, I would say we love to see evolutions of a medium; it may either evoke nostalgia or trigger a specific memory we have attached with it in the past. As a kid I loved the Star Wars movies, and when the new trilogy was announced, I was ecstatic because I wanted to see it on the big screen remembering the same feelings I had watching it with my dad. No matter how bad or repetitive it may get, just a small change in creativity will keep us entertained, that's why we have 11 Halloween movies or the different McDonalds burgers accross the world; they will keep making more and we will keep endorsing it. 

Secondly, when I read this article, one thought came to mind. It talks about meme's success to virality, but I kept thinking why memes initially have high mutation rates, then it seems to... die off within a couple of weeks, at most? They garner so many view counts and Google searches, how is it that when something goes viral, its bound to fade away eventually? LOL Cats and Bad Luck Brian were THE templates everyone used to create their own versions, now its evolved to [panels and text on a white background](https://i.redd.it/vn0flrazaht11.jpg). Perhaps this is because memes occupy just a small amount of our attention - a "limited resource" that gets overwritten each time we want to enjoy a new meme. But this seems to contradict the point I made in the last paragraph. Why do we let memes die and move onto the next, but trends that go viral such as movies, books, music, newspaper articles stick around, waiting to be revived? Is it because Internet memes are invisible? We can rank them, give them awards, even manipulate them with creativity so they aren't spreading by natural selection, but we somehow can't do that with memes. Is it because they occupy such a small portion of attention, we aren't able to associate a memory to them?  

Based on the article by Abby Rabinowitz: [here](http://nautil.us/issue/5/fame/the-meme-as-meme)

## Blog 2 - Neural Networks and Bots

I really liked this week’s readings for class, it included topics on bots and machine learning which always interests me. One that I read was Janelle Shane’s website where she trains neural networks by providing datasaets to infer from. In one blog post, she talks about BigGAN, a neural network that generates high-resolution and photorealistic images. The photos produced by BigGAN of consistent subjects such as ones of animals and landscapes look amazing. Its really hard to tell they were computer generated. However, when we parse them to generate images of humans, the process goes horribly wrong. She mentions in the post: “the problem is that we’re really attuned to look for things that are slightly off in the faces and bodies of other humans”. I whole heartedly agree with this statement because as we improve technology to recreate humans using computers, we have to either excel at it, or be bad at it (cartoons). If our technology exists in the middle, we go deep in an uncanny valley that makes us look distressing. 

In Speak by Louisa Hall, babybots are “classified as illegally lifelike, their minds were within a 10% deviation from human thought (…)”. In this case, technology for creating lifelike bots has transcended the uncanny valley into something more similar to humans than robots. A question that can arise from this is: As artificial intelligence advances, to what extent does it have to be human-like, that it won't fall into an uncanny valley? In the book, we don’t get a clear enough picture of what babybots look like, however, whether they look human or like Eve from WALL.E, they got banned either way. 

Artificial intelligence does not have to look human, they can interact like humans. In the article by VICE, How To Think About Bots, an interesting point the author points out is “at the same time, we want bots to understand us, work for us; in this case of failure it isn’t funny but annoying”. Therefore, why are we laughing in the case that bots fail and do something out of the ordinary? We are making bots more lifelike, adopting human personalities because we want them to do jobs for us; we should be cheering them on. The Google Assistant that can make reservations, which was recently unveiled at their keynote, at first appeared to me being very creepy, but at the same time feeling very impressed. It was so advanced it even included filler words and paused to think, even though it did not have to. I am a huge movie buff, so when I first read Shane’s post on BigGAN and its failure to comprise human pictures, I thought of CGI in movies. In blockbusters, we can create such amazing imagery of aliens and monsters, but we still fail at recreating humans. We were unable to remove Henry Cavill’s mustache convincingly, making Superman’s mouth move in unconventional ways in the Justice League film. Its because we don’t know how aliens and monster move or how they look like; the unknown can make them look realistic letting our creativity and imagination run wild. By contrast, we know how mouths are supposed to move and ultimately comes out as fake. 

Sources: 
VICE, How To Think About Bots: [here](https://motherboard.vice.com/en_us/article/qkzpdm/how-to-think-about-bots)
Janelle Shane, Letting Neural Networks Be Weird: [here](http://aiweirdness.com/)
Louisa Hall, Speak. 

## Blog 1 - Encyclopedias 

Reading from Encyclopedic Anxiety by Joseph Reagle. Available online: [here](https://reagle.org/joseph/2010/gfc/chapter-7.html)

The most intriguing reading for me this week was in Chapter 7 of Reagle's article. It came to me as a surprise when the author mentioned Wikipedia was first thought of as "marketed (...) resources for children", since it is (now) highly regarded as a reputable encyclopedia despoite certain controvercies. “The implication was that any parent who failed to buy an encyclopedia for the youngster was depriving a child of the opportunity of doing well in school, and, ultimately, in life”. I found this to be an interesting quote; it's now turned on its head. If you were to look into the average household around thr world, not everyone has an encyclopedia, and instead, everyone has access to Wikipedia. Furthermore, I can't conclude one is a bad parent because their children does not have access to an encyclopedia. Personally, my dad rather bases whether people do well in their lives on the amount of novels or non-fictions on their book shelves. I had a encyclopedia-lacking childhood and am ever so proud of my dad. 

Reagle argues in his article about Wikipedia's child safety, ultimately addressing "concerns about age appropriateness partly through the provision of a Simple English Wikipedia for use by children". This begs the question why it was marketed for children on its launch. Perhaps it becuase it wasn't solely written by reputable authors? Or because it was written in simple English that any layman could understand? This particular section of Chapter 7 was surprising becuase you would have never associated the site being for children. Through this simple quote you could see the shift in technology and the impact that the digital revolution has had. The Internet has just been invented, people remain skeptical of Wikipedia after using a hard copy for generations. Therefore, the notion of "Wikipedia is an unreliable source" has been hardwired into schools. 

Slowly and surely, Wikipedia will gain a different connotation, as seen by what it was just a couple of years ago. We can ask at what point did it change? It certainly seems to be profound; within the past week MY personal connotation has infact changed. I believe by doing this Wikipedia assignment, I can understand the extent each article goes through (the original research needed, valididty by Wikimedia groups, talk pages), asking whether this is an unreliable source amongst the vast unmoderated majority on the Internet. The Library of Congress now digitalizing all scholarly articles written, as well as tweets, says a lot about the direction we are going upon rapid imrovements in technology. I was surprised because I was born in the age of the Internet, I have no experience with using physical encyclopedias. However, know what Wikipedia is now no longer marketed as resources for children. Not only does it serve as an online encyclopedia, it is a medium for the curious who do not need to "go to parents for help", and get answers independently.

-Jay Agaskar
