## No Digital Day

My No Digital Day was from Saturday, 20 October, to Sunday, 21 October which started and ended at 1:30pm. I was initially going to choose to start my 24-hour period at midnight, that way I’d have my mind at ease in visualizing this experiment, thinking about it as a whole day of not using technology, which somehow makes me feel as if time will go faster until I can start up my phone again. However, I ended up starting at 1:30pm in the afternoon because this gives me the Saturday morning to get everything sorted before I start; replying to emails, sending snapchat streaks, texting my friends, printing out papers. 

I can admit that I am addicted to my phone, browsing on the internet and watching Netflix on my laptop. I knew that technology has become an integral part of my life since a young age because I’d watch morning cartoons sitting close to the television, until I needed glasses around the 3rd grade. Being in university also meant I had a lot of work to do, without the ability to just sit and read a book or go outside, during this day. As a Computer Science major, I also rely on my laptop to do my homework, and it certainly did come as an inconvenience. 

Ultimately, I chose to go with scenario A: 1992. It would be difficult for me to not interact with technology due to my personal tendencies, and that I would be difficult for me to avoid the technology. Therefore, this choice is best so that I could still use certain resources to get work done, if I needed to. 

On the day, I prepared my notebook and a pen to record the urges I have to check my phone or access the internet. The number came to a total of 26, which honestly, did not come as big of a surprise to me. I am self-aware that I like to go on Facebook or check Instagram every time I get bored from doing work in 30 minute intervals. However, what was interesting that I thought about, is that this is the amount of times I had the urge to use technology when I self-consciously know that I am not supposed to. Therefore, how many times do I even use the technologies when I sub-consciously tell myself it is alright to do so? The number must be in the hundreds. I ask Siri each morning what the weather is, I look at my phone for the time, and I like to instantly respond to personal messages. 

It is as if I have muscle memory from picking up my phone or looking towards the side of my laptop to see whether I received any new messages on it. I can recall that I will use technology to suppress times at which I feel boredom, and this happens frequently. I would listen to music walking from my dorm to the library, I would play a quick game while waiting for food to arrive at a restaurant, whenever I get take home food I like to sit in front of my laptop and watch a TV show. However, thinking about why I get bored easily in these situations is because there is a lack of human interaction in them. I listen to music because I walk alone, when I wait in line for food at Qdoba I would browse Instagram, and I would watch YouTube videos to keep me entertained when I am eating. Yet, when I am walking friends or with my parents at a restaurant, I will not interact with technology because my boredom is suppressed by talking. Perhaps this says that I am a “fidgety” person, and if I get bored without a medium for interaction, whether it is my phone, or another person. When my phone wasn’t available in these situations, it was indeed boring without anything to do. Except for walking, since your physical surroundings change and you are moving, it can be pleasurable to appreciate the environment. 

When the clock hit 1:30pm, I was already prepared at the library; switched off my laptop and took out my marketing book to catch up on some readings. The elimination of technology for revising was very helpful. When I am taking notes, I always feel better writing them down anyways, and it was a nice change to not read from a screen. I was more focused on the task at hand, now having no distractions; taking a further step to also turn off my phone so I don’t get messages in its entirety. For the first few hours since the start, I was transitioning between studying different subjects and reading everything I had missed previously. I thought maybe this method of eliminating technology increases efficiency in studying? You become focused on one subject at a time, without having to multitask in using technology. However, would using technology also be faster in the look up of information, and learning more? This is also true because one aspect the inconvenienced me was when my databases book did not effectively cover cardinalities. If I did have access to the Internet, I would Google how to draw them, or watch a YouTube video so that I effectively can learn what to do, and quickly move on to the next section. 

After my study session, it was 6:00pm and I made plans with friends to meet them in Chinatown for dinner. I realized that getting to the restaurant would also be an inconvenience since I can’t call for an Uber using my phone. Therefore, I quickly called my friend and agreed to meet him at his apartment off campus, where he would call an Uber for our group. This would have been a problem if my friends had left, I relied heavily on transportation by Uber that I completely forgot I would have to take that into consideration as well, since the T would take too long and we may miss our reservation. Apps like Uber makes our lives much easier and saves time, but when we are stripped of it, we don’t have power anymore. The application has more power than us because we put all our trust into them. 

At the restaurant, I couldn’t recall having any urges to check me phone. As I mentioned earlier, by surrounding myself with human interactions, I no longer am bored, and therefore do not need to reach for my phone. After dinner, since AMC Lowes in Boston Commons was in proximity of the restaurant, we went to go watch the new Halloween movie reboot. This was my only direct interaction with technology during the day, promoting me to focus all my attention to a screen for the runtime of the movie. Nevertheless, I assume this does not break any violations of the experiment because movies had existed before 1992 and personally, I think this is a great way to experience technology. People back then couldn’t stream video on theirpersonal devices and it made me think about the culture of movie goers who would come together as a community to sit around and watch something, keeping us occupied. Going to the cinema makes me experience a movie to the fullest that it has to offer. All in all, I think if I were ever going to be doing another No Digital Day in the future, I would go watch a movie. It's a great way to destress and have some personal me-time. 

Informing my friends of this task, they deemed it an interesting but tough experiment to do in 2018 because of its abundance. They also wanted to do it with me, and on the way back we decided to walk from Boston Commons; not using technology and digest our food. In a situation where you are in an unfamiliar location, not having access to GPS on Google Maps can be quite frustrating; further exemplifying my point that we are very dependent on technology to work for us. However, since we knew the way back, this was not an inconvenience. 

The following day, I was glad that my inability to set an alarm on my phone worked out in my favor; I woke up around midday, sleeping through most of the remaining day. I found it hard to suppress my urges to watch YouTube videos in bed on a Saturday night, and to stop this lack of boredom, sleeping is the best way to tackle it. By waking up at midday, I proceeded to cook myself lunch and before I knew it, the clock came back to 1:30pm.

As a result of this experimental No Digital Day, I came out with a greater appreciaton for time. Forcing myself to not use technology has certainly eliminated distractions allowing me to finish work more effectively. Time flowed a slower than if I were mindlessly checking my phone. However, this also limited me to the amount of work I can accomplish without using the Internet as a resource. My day was definitely different than my friends, however, it wasn't to the extent that I was thinking it would. Just becuase I like to browse my phone whilst waiting for food at a restaurant doesn't mean my friends do as well. I thought I would get bored without my phone, but by engaging in conversations with them instead, I completely forgot I was doing this experiment. Of course technology affects our lives by providing convenience, it doesn't have to take control of our social lives. I've been too indulged in my phone and unappreciated the subtle, fun, laugh out loud conversations I have with friends, unlike texting. Sure Uber has made us rely so much more on Internet access, but I think it is a fair trade off if I get to hang out with my friends for longer by walking to a location, or go by public transport and experience the environment around me. 

When I came to Northeastern last fall as a freshmen, I constantly met up with an upperclassmen from my high school to make myself feel more at home, knowing someone who had the same experiences I had, someone who can speak Thai with me, someone that I can personally relate to after moving a new country. We bonded over a conversation about how horrible the Thai Reserve Army was (as a Thai national, it was the law that all boys had to go to army training for the last three years of high school). It was horrible and I hated the experience becuase I wanted to just relax at home and play games and watch TV instead of spending my Saturdays wasting time at the army. However, no matter how bad it was, we agreed the best thing about it was personal bonding with other Thai boys in my year group. We had limited access to technology because the supervisors were quite strict, and I guess because of this I am now closer to everyone who shared that experience with me. Technology doesn't have to control us unless we let it; the first and hardest step, is to completely get rid of it in order to expose yourself to take a step back and appreciate everything you have. I thought it was life or death to not have my phone, but it wasn't as important to me than meaningful human interactions. You're less concerned about what everyone else is doing  and focus on yourself, or if you do want to know what your friends are doing, you can ask them in person.   

